WIP V8 API usage in Node.js (#26929)
nodejs/node: doc/guides/V8-api-for-node.md

## V8 API usage for Node.js

v8 docs, not particularly useful:
- https://v8.dev/docs

Some API info at https://v8.dev/docs/embed

- An isolate is a VM instance with its own heap.

>   Node has one isolate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Node has one isolate per Worker.
```

>   Can get from `Local<Object>->GetIsolate()`, `context->GetIsolate()`

Reviewer: We probably don’t want to encourage the former because it’s a bit slow and discouraged by the V8 people. Usually, if we pass something around that gives us access to the `Isolate*`, it’s the `node::Environment` instance

- `Local<...>`: A local handle is a pointer to an object. All V8 objects are
  accessed using handles, they are necessary because of the way the V8 garbage
  collector works.  Local handles can only be allocated on the stack, in a
  scope, not with new, and will be deleted as stack unwinds, usually with a
  scope.

>   - XXX don't see us create scopes much in node, why?

Reviewer: Usually, that is because JS bindings (functions that take `FunctionCallbackInfo` or similar) already come with a `HandleScope` built-in.

>   - XXX locals go into a HandleScope, for auto-dispose? Always, or by default?

Reviewer: Can you explain this one?

Reviewer 2: There's always a HandleScope somewhere (creating a Local without a HandleScope anywhere is a fatal error) but it's possibly the HandleScope that's way down the stack, around the central call to `uv_run()`.

Locals that end up in that HandleScope are effectively leaked because they're not reclaimed until the event loop terminates.

Reviewer: > There's always a HandleScope somewhere (creating a Local without a HandleScope anywhere is a fatal error) but it's possibly the HandleScope that's way down the stack, around the central call to `uv_run()`.

I’m not sure if it’s worth mentioning here, but we have the `SealHandleScope` around the event loop in order to make sure that we don’t leak those handles.

Reviewer: Btw, @jasnell requested in https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27116 that we explain when to use `SealHandleScope` – I think this would fit in nicely here? Basically, the idea is to make sure that the code inside the `SealHandleScope` always *needs* to explicitly open a `HandleScope` if it does use handles.

- Persistent handles last past C++ functions.
  - PersistentBase::SetWeak trigger a callback from the garbage collector when
    the only references to an object are from weak persistent handles.
  - A UniquePersistent<SomeType> handle relies on C++ constructors and
    destructors to manage the lifetime of the underlying object.
  - A Persistent<SomeType> can be constructed with its constructor, but must be

>     explicitly cleared with Persistent::Reset.

Reviewer: This is a good example of how usage is shifting – we introduced `node::Persistent<>`, which automatically resets in the destructor, but which becomes unnecessary through `v8::Global<>`, which also does that and additionally supports move semantics. (I’d also use `v8::Global<>` instead of `UniquePersistent` above, the latter is an alias for the former and I don’t think we use `UniquePersistent` in our codebase.)

- Eternal is a persistent handle for JavaScript objects that are expected to

>   never be deleted. It is cheaper to use because it relieves the garbage

Reviewer 2: "that are expected to never be deleted _for the lifetime of the isolate_"?

  collector from determining the liveness of that object.
- A handle scope can be thought of as a container for any number of handles.
  When you've finished with your handles, instead of deleting each one
  individually you can simply delete their scope.
- EscapableHandleScope: Locals can't be returned, their scope will delete them,
  so you need an escable scope, and to `return scope.Escape(...the local)`. It
  scopes the locals into the enclosing scope and returns a local for that scope.

Local, MaybeLocal, Maybe, Value, oh my...

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/v8-users/gQVpp1HmbqM

- MaybeLocal may be "empty", basically not contain a pointer of its type.  See
  `class MaybeLocal`, has some useful notes on why, but basically its returned

>   by anything that might fail to have a value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when there is an exception pending in V8.
```

I don’t think there are many cases where this doesn’t hold true, and it should give the right intuition about it.

- If you know that the MaybeLocal has a value, then call ToLocalChecked() and

>   node will abort with CHECK() if you are wrong.

Reviewer 2: It's not a CHECK, it calls OnFatalError() in src/node_errors.cc.

- Otherwise, you have to call `bool ToLocal(Local<S>* out)`, and check the
  return value to see if there was a value. Or call IsEmpty() to check.

- Maybe is similar, but doesn't hold a Local, just a value of T. "Just" means it
  "just has a value", a bizarrely named Haskellism :-(. It has a To() and
  ToChecked() similar to MaybeLocal.
- A common node idiom is to make a seemingly side-effect free call to

>   `.FromJust()` after `->Set()`, which will crash node if the Set failed.

Reviewer 2: We do use FromJust() a lot but V8 has Check() these days which is arguably more appropriate: returns void and the name makes it clearer that it can fail. Maybe we should switch over in one fell swoop...

Author: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/27162

  FromJust is also() commonly called  after getting a Maybe<> of a concrete data
  type from a Local<Value>. It will crash if the conversion fails!

>         int32_t v = (Local<Value>)->In32Value(env->context()).FromJust()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        int32_t v = (Local<Value>)->Int32Value(env->context()).FromJust()
```

> - As<T> always returns a value, though probably not one that is useful, its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As<T> always returns a value, though it does not perform typechecking on its own, its
```

>   usually best to check the type:

Reviewer 2: You could mention that `.As<T>()` is basically an unchecked reinterpret_cast in release builds. (It typechecks and aborts in debug builds.)

  - Boolean becomes 1/0 as int, "true"/"false" as strings, etc.
  - Numbers become false as Boolean (for any value), -3 casts to String "-3"
  - Functions become numerically zero, and "function () { const hello=0; }" as a

>     String

Reviewer: Using `.As<>` to convert e.g. functions to strings isn’t a valid thing to do, and I don’t think we should docuemnt it – that should crash in debug mode?

Author: So, this I didn't understand. A `Function` becoming the source code of it's definition doesn't seem to be at all similar to a C-style untype-checked cast, unless a Function object *is* somehow derived from String. It appeared to me, while experimenting, to be doing the equivalent of `String(a_function)` -- so, not a cast.

Reviewer: @sam-github Could you maybe give an example of how you came to that conclusion? It might help to know that. (If you used `String::Utf8Value`: That just “happens” to work out because the constructor of that class takes a `Local<Value>`, and explicitly converts the argument to string if necessary)

Reviewer 3: to clarify, As should only be known when you are clarifying the handle type, not to perform a conversion. like Anna said, using As to perform an invalid cast will even abort in debug mode.

Reviewer 2: Sam, can you remove these three bullet points?

  - Examples:
        CHECK(args[0]->IsInt32());  // Optional, but typical
        Local<Int32> l = args[0].As<Int32>(); int32_t v = li->Value();

        CHECK(args[0]->IsString());  // Optional, but typical
        const node::Utf8Value v(env->isolate(), args[0]); const char* s = *s;

- To<T> will convert values in fairly typical js way:
   ... never seems to be used by node?
   AFAICT, is identical to the As<> route, except for Boolean, which is always

>    false with As<T>(), but is "expected" with ToT().

Reviewer: I’m not sure which `To` you’re referring to here, but if you’re talking about `ToObject()`, `ToBoolean()`, etc., then that’s different from `.As<>()` – `.As<>` performs a pointer cast without checking, but the `To...` methods perform the JS conversion operations, e.g. `foo->ToNumber()` is the same as `+foo` in JS.

Author: That text describes what I saw when I wrote some scratch code to explore the difference: https://github.com/sam-github/node/commit/3efb492369088435075b51f31705381e2ec7405f  , so the behaviour I saw doesn't really agree with the As() is just a cast. I saw conversion.

Reviewer: @sam-github That should crash hard in debug mode as invalid casts – it’s just luck that V8 doesn’t crash in release mode, because the implementations of the methods you’re using there don’t *actually* require an object of the specified type. E.g. `Boolean::Value()` is really just checking whether the object strict-equals `true` – that operation can work on any type. `Number::Value()` uses a V8 internal that’s implemented for all object types, so it also just happens to work out by accident (possibly incorrectly – I don’t think it actually handles conversions).

Reviewer 2: Can you remove this paragraph? There's no templated `To<T>`.

(There's `Maybe<T>::To()` but that's different.)

- FunctionCallbackInfo
  - can GetIsolate()
  - can get Environment: Environment* env = Environment::GetCurrent(args);
  - can get args using 0-based index

>   - returns Local<Value>

Reviewer 2: Maybe fold this into the previous line? It made me think of `args.GetReturnValue().Set(...)` but that isn't what you mean, is it?

  - has a .Length(), access past length returns a Local<Value> where value is
    Undefined

>   - has a number of Is*() predicates which check exact type of Value, and

Reviewer: This should maybe mention that the predicates are present on `Value`?

    (mostly) do NOT consider possible conversions:
    - {then: ()=>{}} is not considered a Promise,
    - `1` is not considered `true`,
    - `null` is not an `Object` (!),
    - new String() is a StringObject (not a String),

>     - 3 is a Int32 and also a Uint32, -3 is only a Int32

Reviewer 2: -3 is also a Number :-)

    - etc.

Conventions on arg checking: two patterns are common:
1. C++ functions directly exposed to the user
2. C++ functions wrapped in a js function, only js is exposed to the user

The first option requires careful checking of argument types.

The second option is becoming more common. In this case the js function can
check all the argument types are as expected (throwing an error if they are
not), and destructure options properties to pass them as positional args (so the
C++ doesn't have to do Object property access and presence/type checks).  C++
can use its args fairly directly, aborting if the js layer failed to pass the
expected types:

    CHECK(args[0]->IsInt32());
    int32_t arg0 = args[0].As<Int32>()->Value();

- A context is an execution environment that allows separate, unrelated,
  JavaScript code to run in a single instance of V8. The motivation for using
  contexts in V8 was so that each window and iframe in a browser can have its
  own fresh JavaScript environment.

>   XXX Node uses one context, mostly, does vm. create new ones? anything else?

Reviewer: I think that’s about it.

One kind-of-open question is whether we want Node’s own APIs to eventually supports multiple contexts, but that would be a major change to some of our internals…

Author: does vm (or anything else) create new Contexts?

Reviewer: Yes, the vm module does that. It’s currently the only public API for that.

>   Can get from `isolate->GetCurrentContext()`

Reviewer: … which is why this should be the same as `env->context()` in almost all cases.

> XXX Function vs FunctionTemplate ... wth?

Reviewer: The distinction isn’t *that* important to us because we don’t expose many APIs for more than one context (`MessagePort` being the only exception I can think of right now) – essentially, a `FunctionTemplate` can be used to create functionally identical function instances for multiple contexts.

Reviewer 2: FunctionTemplates are also useful because they give you an ObjectTemplate (through InstanceTemplate()) that you can use to define internal fields. You can't do that with regular Functions.

- node::Environment contains an Isolate and a Context, various other
  information global to Node, and many convenient methods.
  
  It is possible to get an Environment from many v8 objects by calling
  Environment::GetCurrent() on a v8::Isolate*, v8::Local<v8::Context>,
  v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>, etc...

  An Environment can be used to get an Isolate, Context, uv_loop_t, etc.
 
  Commonly used convenience methods:
  - ThrowError/TypeError/RangeError/ErrnoException/...

>   XXX why are some called Error and others called Exception?

Reviewer 2: Legacy :-) ThrowErrnoException() and ThrowUVException() are old, the others are newer. I'd be okay with renaming them if that clears up the confusion / cognitive dissonance.

  - SetMethod/SetMethodNoSideEffect/SetProtoMethod/SetTemplateMethod

>   XXX difference?

Reviewer 2: NoSideEffect means it's safe to use from the debugger, SetProtoMethod() sets on `obj.__proto__` rather than `obj`, and SetTemplateMethod() isn't a thing. :-)

Reviewer 3: to be more specific, the debugger will eagerly evaluate functions that are marked as NoSideEffect

  - SetImmediate
  - EnvironmentOptions* options(): "some" options...
  XXX how to reach PerIsolateOptions, PerProcessOptions
  - etc.

  Contains many global strings and symbols.
  XXX ...

## `NODE_MODULE_CONTEXT_AWARE_INTERNAL`

See: https://nodejs.org/api/addons.html#addons_context_aware_addons

Called with:
- `Local<Object> exports`: where to put exported properties, conventionally
  called `target` in node
- `Local<Value> module`: conventionally unused in node

> XXX what is this for? addon docs don't mention or use it

Reviewer: It should be the same value that `module` has in CJS scripts – I think this is mostly there so that it matches the addon API more closely? We can remove it if we want, I’d say.

- `Local<Context> context`:
- void* priv: not commonly used

> XXX where is it ever used? for what?

Reviewer: I don’t think anybody uses this in practice, neither Node.js itself nor addons. I think the idea was for it to function as sort of a opaque pointer, but that never became useful due to the way that we load addons?

3. Get a function from the template
4. Set a string in the target to the function

Mysterious boilerplate:
- ToLocalChecked() see MaybeLocal vs Local
- FromJust(): XXX

    
    
        Local<FunctionTemplate> t = env->NewFunctionTemplate(New);

Fields are used to store pointers to C++ objects:
XXX I think
        t->InstanceTemplate()->SetInternalFieldCount(1);
Set methods:

https://v8.dev/docs/embed#more-example-code
- XXX read through, it has examples of calling the API

- <http://izs.me/v8-docs/classv8_1_1Object.html>
- https://code.google.com/p/v8/
- Building: <https://code.google.com/p/v8/wiki/BuildingWithGYP>
- how to compile js to see what it looks like?
- [Breaking V8 Changes](https://docs.google.com/a/strongloop.com/document/d/1g8JFi8T_oAE_7uAri7Njtig7fKaPDfotU6huOa1alds/edit)
- <https://developers.google.com/v8/get_started>
- <https://chromium.googlesource.com/v8/v8/+/master/docs/using_git.md>

- <https://developers.google.com/v8/embed>

Handle is base, from that are Local (go in HandleScope), and Persistent
(manually managed scope). Constructors (String::New) seem to return Locals.

`return Local<Array>();` ... seems to do exactly what you are not supposed

> to do... whats up?

Reviewer 2: It's okay to return empty handles, just not handles that point to something without going through `EscapableHandleScope::Escape()`.

## V8 API usage for Node.js

v8 docs, not particularly useful:
- https://v8.dev/docs

v8 docs, generated from master:
- https://v8.paulfryzel.com/docs/master/

v8 code search:
- https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/v8/include/v8.h

Some API info at https://v8.dev/docs/embed

- An isolate is a VM instance with its own heap.
  Node has one isolate per Worker.
  Can get from `Local<Object>->GetIsolate()` (but this is slow and discouraged
  by the V8 people), `Local<Context>->GetIsolate()`, or more typically from
  `(node::Environment*env)->isolate()` or `FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>
  args.GetIsolate()`.

- `Local<...>`: A local handle is a pointer to an object. All V8 objects are
  accessed using handles, they are necessary because of the way the V8 garbage

>   collector works.  Local handles can only be allocated on the stack, in a

Reviewer 4: Extra space before `Local`.

  scope, not with new, and will be deleted as stack unwinds, usually with a
  scope.
  - We don't explicitly create HandleScopes very often, because all functions
    that take `FunctionCallbackInfo` (or similar) already come with one
    built-in.
  - Allocating a `Local<>` outside of a scope can lead to difficult to track
    down memory leaks, so the top-level event loop instantiates a
    `SealHandleScope`. Basically, the idea is to make sure that the code inside
    the SealHandleScope always needs to explicitly open a HandleScope if it does
    use handles, so that they will be deleted when the stack unwinds.
- Persistent handles last past C++ functions.
  - PersistentBase::SetWeak trigger a callback from the garbage collector when
    the only references to an object are from weak persistent handles.
  - A `v8::Global<>` (alias of a `UniquePersistent<>`) handle relies on C++
    constructors and destructors to manage the lifetime of the underlying

>     object. We don’t use `UniquePersistent` in Node.js.

Reviewer 2: I'd drop the notes about `UniquePersistent`, that's its old name and will probably go away entirely someday.

  Maybe is not needed like Object::Set. It returns void and the name makes it
  clearer that it can fail.

        target->Set(env->context(), class_name, function).Check();

- As<T> always returns a value, though it does not perform typechecking on its
  own, so the type should be checked. It is basically an unchecked
  reinterpret_cast in release builds (it typechecks and aborts in debug builds).
  - Boolean becomes 1/0 as int, "true"/"false" as strings, etc.
  - Numbers become false as Boolean (for any value), -3 casts to String "-3"
  - Functions become numerically zero, and "function () { const hello=0; }" as a
    String
  - Examples:
        CHECK(args[0]->IsInt32());  // Optional, but typical
        Local<Int32> l = args[0].As<Int32>(); int32_t v = li->Value();

        CHECK(args[0]->IsString());  // Optional, but typical
        const node::Utf8Value v(env->isolate(), args[0]); const char* s = *s;

- To<T> will convert values in fairly typical js way:
   ... never seems to be used by Node.js?
   AFAICT, is identical to the As<> route, except for Boolean, which is always
   false with As<T>(), but is "expected" with ToT().

> - FunctionCallbackInfo

Reviewer 4: Document `args.Holder()` ?

>   - can GetIsolate()

Reviewer 4: Normally we get Isolate through `Environment`.
```cpp
Environment* env = Environment::GetCurrent(args);
Isolate* isolate = env->isolate();
```

v8 docs, not particularly useful:
- https://v8.dev/docs

v8 docs, generated from master:

> - https://v8.paulfryzel.com/docs/master/

Reviewer 5: I think these are out of date? Also Firefox warns that it's using an expired certificate.

Reviewer 2: It's documenting V8 6.9 so yeah, pretty stale.

Reviewer 4: Could we fork this https://github.com/paulfryzel/v8-doxygen, and redeploy it to GH pages or `Nodejs.org`

Reviewer 4: Repo: https://github.com/gengjiawen/v8-docs

Reviewer 4: Online preview by gitlab: https://gengjiawen.gitlab.io/-/v8-docs/-/jobs/208633573/artifacts/html/index.html.
